Network setup update (#2999)
status-im/nim-beacon-chain: docs/the_nimbus_book/src/networking.md

# Network setup

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Nimbus will automatically connect to peers based on the health and quality of peers that it's already connected to. Depending on the network and the number of validators attached to the the node, Nimbus may need anywhere from 10 to 60 peers connected to operate well.

In addition to making outgoing connections, the beacon node node works best when others can connect to the node - this speeds up the process of finding good peers.

To allow incoming connections, the peer must be reachable via a public IP address.

By default, Nimbus uses UPnP to set up port forwarding and detect your external IP address. If you do not have UPnP enabled, you may need to pass additional command-line options to the node, as detailed below.
```

A collection of tips and tricks to help improve your network connectivity.

## Monitor your Peer count

> If your Peer count is low (less than `20`) and/or you repeatedly see the following warning:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your Peer count is low (less than `15`) and/or you repeatedly see the following warning:
```

```
WRN 2021-05-08 12:59:26.669+00:00 Peer count low, no new peers discovered    topics="networking" tid=1914 file=eth2_network.nim:963 discovered_nodes=9 new_peers=0 current_peers=1 wanted_peers=160
```

> It probably means that your computer is not reachable from the outside. This means you won't be able to accept any incoming peer connections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It means that Nimbus was unable to find a sufficient number of peers to guarantee stable operation, and you may miss attestations and blocks as a result. 

Most commonly, this happens when your computer is not reachable from the outside and therefore won't be able to accept any incoming peer connections.
```

If you're on a home network, the fix here is to set up port forwarding.

## Check for incoming connections

To check if you have incoming connections set, run:

```

> curl -s http://localhost:8008/metrics | grep libp2p_open_streams 

Reviewer: need an example here of what it looks like when there are no incoming connections (in = 0..)

Author: `libp2p_open_streams{type="LPChannel",dir="In"} 0` ?

Reviewer: the `ChronosStream` one

```

> **N.B** you need to run the client with the `--metrics` option enabled in order for this to work

## Set up port forwarding

If you're running on a home network and want to ensure you are able to receive incoming connections you may need to set up port forwarding (though some routers automagically set this up for you).

> **Note:** If you are running your node on a virtual public cloud (VPC) instance, you can safely ignore this section.

While the specific steps required vary based on your router, they can be summarised as follows:

1. Determine your [public IP address](./health.md#public-ip-address)

> 2. Determine your [private IP address](./health.html#private-ip-address)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Determine your [private IP address](./health.md#private-ip-address)
```

Reviewer: actually, these links should probably live in networking now?

> 3. Browse to the management website for your home router (typically [http://192.168.1.1)](http://192.168.1.1)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Browse to the management website for your home router (typically [http://192.168.1.1](http://192.168.1.1))
```

4. Log in as admin / root
5. Find the section to configure port forwarding
6. Configure a port forwarding rule with the following values:
- External port: `9000`
- Internal port: `9000`
- Protocol: `TCP`
- IP Address: Private IP address of the computer running Nimbus
7. Configure a second port forwarding rule with the following values:
- External port: `9000`
- Internal port: `9000`
- Protocol: `UDP`
- IP Address: Private IP address of the computer running Nimbus

### Determine your public IP address

To determine your public IP address, visit [http://v4.ident.me/](http://v4.ident.me/) or run this command:

```
curl v4.ident.me
```

### Determine your private IP address

To determine your private IP address, run the appropriate command for your OS:

**Linux:**

```
ip addr show | grep "inet " | grep -v 127.0.0.1
```

**Windows:**

```
ipconfig | findstr /i "IPv4 Address"
```

**macOS:**

```
ifconfig | grep "inet " | grep -v 127.0.0.1
```

> ### Check open ports on your connection

Reviewer: newline

Use [this tool](https://www.yougetsignal.com/tools/open-ports/) to check your external (public) IP address and detect open ports on your connection (Nimbus TCP and UDP ports are both set to `9000` by default).

> ## Pass the extip option

Reviewer 2: I think this should go before `### Check open ports on your connection`, and thus as part of that section?
If you are explaining how to set up port forwarding, figure out public IP address, etc. then it means you are behind NAT but without UPnP working and thus you need `--nat:extip:<ip addr>` and/or `--enr-auto-update`.

> If you're still experiencing a low peer count, you may be behind a firewall. Try restarting your client and passing `--nat:extip:$EXT_IP_ADDRESS` as an option to the client,  where `$EXT_IP_ADDRESS` is your real IP. For example, if your real IP address is `35.124.65.104`, you'd run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have a static public IP address, use the `--nat:extip:$EXT_IP_ADDRESS` option to pass it to the client,  where `$EXT_IP_ADDRESS` is your public IP. For example, if your public IP address is `1.2.3.4`, you'd run:
```

Reviewer 2: You can also still use it with a dynamic IP address. Just that you will probably also require `--enr-auto-update` in that case.

```
./run-prater-beacon-node.sh --nat:extip:35.124.65.104
```

## ENR auto update = true

> Additionally you can turn on `--enr-auto-update` to allow discovery to keep your external IP address up to date based on information received from peers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The `--enr-auto-update` feature keeps your external IP address up to date based on information received from other peers on the network. This option is useful with ISPs that assign IP addresses dynamically.
```

In practice this means relaunching the beacon node with `--enr-auto-update:true` (pass it as an option in the command line).

> ## Reading the logs

Reviewer: `No peers for topic, skipping publish` is printed when we lack quality peers to publish attestations to - this is the most important indication that the node is having trouble keeping up

Reviewer: Basically, the "low peers warning" means that you *may* lose attestations - `skipping publish` instead means you lost one for sure
